docs: Tutorial 10: Account Updates (#634)
o1-labs/docs2: docs/zkapps/tutorials/10-account-updates.mdx

:::

# Tutorial 10: Account Updates

> The fundamental data structure that Mina transactions are built from is called an _account update_. Account updates are a flexible and powerful data structure that can express all kinds of updates, events, and preconditions you use to develop smart contracts. 

Reviewer: There are a few other things in a transaction too, like `feePayer`, `hash` and `memo`. But what you have is correct in spirit and maybe less confusing than my change. Feel free to take it or leave it :)
```suggestion
One of the fundamental data structures that Mina transactions are built from is called an _account update_. Account updates are a flexible and powerful data structure that can express all kinds of updates, events, and preconditions you use to develop smart contracts. 
```

- `Preconditions`: Conditions that must be true for the account update to be applied. Corresponds to assertions in an o1js method.
- `Updates`: Things changed by the account update, such as including the zkApp state, permissions, and verification key.
- `BalanceChange`: Any changes to the balance
- `Authorization`: How the zkApp is authorized; must be a proof (corresponding to the verification key on the account), a signature, or none. See [Authorizations](/zkapps/o1js/interact-with-mina#authorizations).

Other `AccountUpdate` components are available to use, but are not covered in this tutorial:

- `MayUseToken`: Whether the zkApp has permissions to manipulate its token.
- `Layout`: Allows for assertions about the structure of an `AccountUpdate`.

## Account updates for a non-upgradable zkApp

If the verification key cannot be changed, the zkApp smart contract is considered non-upgradeable. The `setVerificationKey` permission sets the ability to change the verification key of the account.

Now, you can start building an example zkApp to explore permissions, preconditions, and composability with `AccountUpdates`.

### Visualize transactions

> To visualize transactions, use the `mina-transaction-visualizer` library. Install this library to use in your own zkApp:

Author: after I learn to use the visualizer library, we will have images that we can improve for the docs @jackryanservia

> To visualize transactions, use the `mina-transaction-visualizer` library. Install this library to use in your own zkApp:

Reviewer: Oh! The code block on line [248](https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/pull/634/files#diff-969f05f00f6ebf0d2189cac7a2e9f07f2e3b23ccdbd89324d240fcc05610c7abR248-R260) explains how to use the visualization library. There aren't really steps; it just provides a few functions you can pass transactions into that return a visualization :)

```sh
npm install mina-transaction-visualizer --save
```

## Smart Contracts

In this tutorial, you build two smart contracts: 

- `ProofsOnlyZkApp`: Non-upgradeable proof only

> - `SecondaryZkApp`: the other zkApp

Author: not sure what to call "the other zkApp" who has a suggestion?

Reviewer: We could call it the "childZkApp" though I'm not sure if that fits perfectly because it can also be used standalone.

### Non-upgradeable proof only

The full example code is provided in the [examples/zkapps/10-account-updates/src/ProofsOnlyZkApp.ts](https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/tree/main/examples/zkapps/10-account-updates/src/ProofsOnlyZkApp.ts) file.

Goal: Configure this zkApp to be modifiable only by using proofs. 

For this example, the zkApp is not upgradable after it is deployed. This means that while the zkApp developer owns the private key to initially deploy the zkApp, after its first deployment, the zkApp requires proof authorization and consequently can be updated only transactions that fulfill the zkApp smart contract logic. The private key is no longer useful for anything.

This zkApp has methods that call other methods to let you explore the impacts to a transaction's account updates.

1. Start by adding the main contents of the zkApp:

  ```typescript
  export class ProofsOnlyZkApp extends SmartContract {
    @state(Field) num = State<Field>();
    @state(Field) calls = State<Field>();

>     deploy(args: DeployArgs) {

Reviewer: These code should eventually be updated for the most recent o1js, but I won't have time to do it today :(
Would it be okay to merge this and put a card on the board to update this code in the next sprint?

Author: we'll track this work in https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/issues/660

1. Import the transaction visualizer:

  ```typescript
  ...
  import { showTxn, saveTxn, printTxn } from 'mina-transaction-visualizer';
  ...
  ```

  This provides three functions:

  ```typescript
  // creates a png file of a transaction, and opens it in a local image viewer
  async showTxn(txn: Mina.Transaction, name: string, legend: Legend)

  // creates a png file of a transaction, and saves it to a path
  saveTxn(txn: Mina.Transaction, name: string, legend: Legend, path: string)

  // prints a nicely formatted view of a transaction
  printTxn(txn: Mina.Transaction, name: string, legend: Legend)

  // with legend type, to replace public keys with human readable strings:
  type Legend = { [pk: string]: string };
  ```

1. Next, define the legend as follows:

  ```typescript
  const legend = {
    [proofsOnlyAddr.toBase58()]: 'proofsOnlyZkApp',
    [secondaryAddr.toBase58()]: 'secondaryZkApp',
    [deployerAccount.toPublicKey().toBase58()]: 'deployer',
  };
  ```

> 1. Deploy your smart contracts and visualize the transaction:

Reviewer: The code block below actually deploys the smart contract. So no user interaction is required. Maybe it could say:
```suggestion
1. Create and send a deploy transaction, then visualize it:
```
I'm not sure that's better though, I'm having trouble with words today 😂

The deploy transaction includes 5 accountUpdates represented as ovals. Described from left to right;

1. Takes the new account fee from the deployer for deploying the zkApps. 
  Note the `-2` on the `balanceChange` field.
2. Deploys the `proofsOnlyZkApp` instance. 
  Note the permissions are all set to the values in the zkApp's `deploy` field, and the `preconditions` asserting the nonce, so the transaction can't be applied more than once.
3. Initializes the `proofsOnlyZkApp`. 
  Note the precondition that it can't already be in a proved state.
4. Deploys an instance of `secondaryZkApp`. 
  Note the permissions here are set to default values, in contrast to the deployment in the `proofsOnlyZkApp` example.
5. Initializes the `secondaryZkApp` instance.

When the transaction is run on chain, these account updates are checked by the Mina network and applied if valid. Each `AccountUpdate` class includes either a proof corresponding to the verification key in the zkApp account on-chain or a signature corresponding to the zkApp address. In this case, only proof authorization is allowed.

### Call `add()` on `proofsOnlyZkApp`

> 1. Call `add()` on your instance of `proofsOnlyZkApp`:

Reviewer: This line might be necessary, but it's up to you :)
```suggestion
```
